PUBDEV-8894: Adding Tweedie Variance Power Maximum Likelihood & dispersion estimation for tweedie/neg binomial (#15472)
h2oai/h2o-3: h2o-docs/src/product/data-science/glm.rst

This process is repeated until the estimates :math:`\hat{\beta}` change by less than the specified amount.

> **Tweedie Variance Power Maximum Likelihood**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Tweedie Likelihood Calculation**
```
I think @syzonyuliia's documentation about Likelihood and AIC should refer here for the Tweedie likelihood calculation.

> 

Reviewer: Just to be clear, I'd add a paragraph here saying that this is used only when we estimate Tweedie variance power, and Tweedie variance power and dispersion.  When we fix the Tweedie variance power we use a simpler formula specified above (in the section where the families are described) unless we estimate dispersion. For dispersion estimation when the Tweedie variance power is fixed we use the Series method.

When we need to estimate the full log likelihood (e.g., for calculating AIC or just the log likelihood) we use the calculation in this section.

This process is repeated until the estimates :math:`\hat{\beta}` change by less than the specified amount.

**Tweedie Likelihood Calculation**

> You only calculate Tweedie likelihood when you estimate the Tweedie variance power or the Tweedie variance power with dispersion. The calculation in this section is used to estimate the full log likelihood. When you fix the Tweedie variance power, you will use a simpler formula (unless you are estimating dispersion). When fixing the Tweedie variance power for dispersion estimation, you use the Series method.

Reviewer 2: Actually, for tweedie family, you perform one of the three estimations:
1. fix the variance power and estimate the dispersion parameter;
2. fix the dispersion parameter and estimate the variance power;
3. estimate both the variance power and dispersion parameter.

Please add somewhere:
When you fix the variance power and estimate the dispersion parameter, the series method is used to perform the estimation.  In this case, you can actually separate the glm coefficient estimation and the dispersion parameter estimation at the end of the glm model building process.  Standard Newton's method is used to estimate the dispersion parameter using the series which is an approximation of the tweedie likelihood function.

   
   \xi = \frac{\phi}{y^{2-p}}

If :math:`p=2`, then it will use the log likelihood of the Gamma distribution:

.. math::

   \log (p) = \begin{cases} - \infty & y=0 \\ \frac{1}{\phi} \log (\frac{1}{\phi \mu}) - \log \text{Gamma} \frac{1}{\phi} + \log (y)(\frac{1}{\phi} -1) + (-\frac{1}{\phi \mu} y) & y>0 \\\end{cases}

If :math:`p=3`, then it will use the inverse Gaussian distribution:

.. math::
   
   \log (p) = \begin{cases} - \infty & y=0 \\ \frac{1}{2} \Big(-log (\phi \mu) \log (2 \pi) -3 \log \big( \frac{y}{\mu} - \frac{(\frac{y}{\mu} -1)^2}{\phi \mu \frac{y}{\mu}} \Big) - \log (\mu) & y>0 \\\end{cases}

If :math:`p<2` and :math:`\xi \leq 0.01`, then it will use the Fourier inversion method.

If :math:`p>2` and :math:`\xi \geq 1`, then it will also use the Fourier inversion method.

Everything else will use the Series method. However, if the Series method fails (output of ``NaN``), then it will try the Fourier inversion method instead.

If both the Series method and Fourier inversion method fail, or if the Fourier inversion method was chosen based on the :math:`\xi` criterium and it failed, it will then estimate the log likelihood using the Saddlepoint approximation.

> 

Reviewer 2: Please replace

Here is the general usage for Tweedie variance power maximum likelihood:
......

with

Here are the general usages for Tweedie variance power and dispersion parameter estimation using maximum likelihood:

 - ``fix_tweedie_variance_power = True`` and ``fix_dispersion_parameter = False`` as it will use the Tweedie variance power set in parameter tweedie_variance_power and estimate the dispersion parameter starting with the value set in parameter init_dispersion_parameter;
 - ``fix_tweedie_variance_power = False`` and ``fix_dispersion_parameter = True`` as it will use the dispersion parameter value in parameter init_dispersion_parameter and estimate the tweedie variance power starting with the value set in parameter tweedie_variance_power;
 - ``fix_tweedie_variance_power = False`` and ``fix_dispersion_parameter = False`` as it will estimate both the variance power and dispersion parameter using the values set in tweedie_variance_power and init_dispersion_parameter respectively.

Here is the general usage for Tweedie variance power maximum likelihood:

- ``fix_tweedie_variance_power = False`` and ``fix_dispersion_parameter = True`` as it will optimize the Tweedie variance power
- ``fix_tweedie_variance_power = False`` and ``fix_dispersion_parameter = False`` as it will optimize both Tweedie variance power and the dispersion parameter

*Optimization Procedure*

> When estimating just the Tweedie variance power, it use the golden section search. Once a small region is found, then it switches to Newton's method. If Newton's method fails (i.e. steps out of the bounds found by the golden section search), it uses the golden section search until convergence. When you optimize both Tweedie variance power and dispersion, it uses the Nelder-Mead method with constraints so that Tweedie variance power :math:`p>1+10^{-10}` and dispersion :math:`\phi >10^{-10}`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When estimating just the Tweedie variance power, it uses the golden section search. Once a small region is found, then it switches to Newton's method. If Newton's method fails (i.e. steps out of the bounds found by the golden section search), it uses the golden section search until convergence. When you optimize both Tweedie variance power and dispersion, it uses the Nelder-Mead method with constraints so that Tweedie variance power :math:`p>1+10^{-10}` and dispersion :math:`\phi >10^{-10}`. If the Nelder-Mead seems to be stuck in local optimum, you might want to try increasing the `dispersion_learning_rate`.
```

If :math:`p>2` and :math:`\xi \geq 1`, then it will also use the Fourier inversion method.

Everything else will use the Series method. However, if the Series method fails (output of ``NaN``), then it will try the Fourier inversion method instead.

If both the Series method and Fourier inversion method fail, or if the Fourier inversion method was chosen based on the :math:`\xi` criterium and it failed, it will then estimate the log likelihood using the Saddlepoint approximation.

Here are the general usages for Tweedie variance power and dispersion parameter estimation using maximum likelihood:

- ``fix_tweedie_variance_power = True`` and ``fix_dispersion_parameter = False`` as it will use the Tweedie variance power set in parameter ``tweedie_variance_power`` and estimate the dispersion parameter starting with the value set in parameter ``init_dispersion_parameter``;
- ``fix_tweedie_variance_power = False`` and ``fix_dispersion_parameter = True`` as it will use the dispersion parameter value in parameter ``init_dispersion_parameter`` and estimate the Tweedie variance power starting with the value set in parameter ``tweedie_variance_power``;

> - ``fix_tweedie_variance_power = False`` and ``fix_dispersion_parameter = False`` as it will estimate both the variance power and dispersion parameter using the values set in ``tweedie_variance_power`` and ``init_dispersion_parameter`` respectively.

Reviewer 2: minor change:

- ``fix_tweedie_variance_power = False`` and ``fix_dispersion_parameter = False`` as it will estimate both the variance power and dispersion parameter using the values set in ``tweedie_variance_power`` and ``init_dispersion_parameter`` respectively.

to 

- ``fix_tweedie_variance_power = False`` and ``fix_dispersion_parameter = False`` as it will estimate both the variance power and dispersion parameter starting with the values set in ``tweedie_variance_power`` and ``init_dispersion_parameter`` respectively.
